With Helm installed, let's check out what we can do with it. All operations are run using the Helm command line interface. To invoke the Helm command line interface, simply run the Helm command. Simply running the helm command or running helm with the helm option will list helpful information. This can serve as a quick way to remember what the right command is to do something. For example, say we want to restore a release to a previous version. After a failed upgrade, we might wonder, wait, what was the command to do that helm restore. And we then see in this list that the correct command is actually helm rollback. So it's much faster than looking on the internet for the answer since it's immediately accessible from the command line interface. We can also use this help feature for subcommands. For example, if we want to see what repository related actions we can take, the command helm repo help will show us how we can add chart repository, or list chart repositories or remove repositories and so on. And we can even dig deeper and learn about what a sub command does, and what parameters it supports. So now that we are familiar with the basics of Helm CLI, let's see what we can do with it. So let's assume we are in a scenario where we need to launch a WordPress website in Kubernetes. And we know that we need a chart to easily deploy the WordPress application. So earlier, we learned that all the charts are stored in the online chart repository at artifacthub.io. So we, we go to the website and search for the chart manually. To ensure we get a high quality chart, we can try to find one that has the official or verified publisher badge. So once the chart is selected, we'll see a detailed page with all the info. And we may want to know about this chart. So it starts out with the exact commands that we need to use to install the chart into our Kubernetes cluster, that continues with what software components this uses and further down the page, we can even see some of the most important configurable settings that we can tweak. It's up to chart developers to mention what they think is important in this description page. Another way to search for a chart is from the command line itself. Use the helm search command to search for WordPress. But note that the search command expects an additional subcommand where you must specify where to search. So you must specify either hub or repo. Hub refers to the artifact hub, which we just saw. We know that the hub is where all the repositories are kind of listed. So this is going to list all charts listed at the artifact hub.io. However, if you'd like to search in specific repositories, then you could use the repo option. So here are the results that show a list of charts for deploying WordPress along with the app version, which by now we know is a version of WordPress that these charts will deploy. Once we have identified the chart to install, we can deploy the application in two commands. As listed in the README file for that chart, there are two commands to be run. The first is to add the Bitnami repository. So the Bitnami chart repository is available at charts.bitnami dot com slash bitnami, it must be added as a repository to our local Helm setup so that when we run the install command Helm can find where the chart is to be installed from the Helm repo add command at the repository. Next, we deploy the application to our cluster using the Helm chart by running the command Helm install my release Bitnami WordPress. So that's it. It's super simple. Deploying an application on a Kubernetes cluster has never been easier. At the end, we even get some useful information about how we can use this WordPress install. So this text is actually generated by the instructions included in the chart. So this way, users can get an idea about how they can continue with their newly installed Kubernetes package. Now once a chart is deployed, it is deployed as a release. So to list all existing releases, run the Helm list command. This is very useful not only to track what has been installed, but also to see what hasn't been updated in a long time. Now when we want to remove all traces of this app, imagine doing that by hand, we would have to delete a lot of objects from our cluster, one by one to get rid of all the WordPress-related components. But with Helm this is again easily done with a simple command. Since we now have the name of the release, we can remove all Kubernetes objects added by the WordPress website with one simple command. Again, very easy, we can really begin to see the power of Helm as a package manager for Kubernetes. Now let's look at some of the other commands available while working with Helm repositories. So the Helm repo command can be used to add, list, remove or update Helm repositories. So we already saw the Helm repo add command. The helm repo list command lists existing repositories. The helm repo update command is somewhat equivalent to what a sudo apt-get update command does on some Linux-based operating systems. So in a nutshell, the info that helm has about that repository is stored locally. And with time, repository maintainers make changes, update stuff and so on. So our local copy of this info gets stale and outdated. So the command above refreshes the info that helm has by pulling it in from the online repository to our local computer. This way, we get the latest data available. Well, that's all for now, head over to the labs and get your hands dirty with some of the basic helm command-line operations. And I'll see you in the next one.