Now that we have developed our first chart, let's make sure the chart is working as intended. Now, there are three ways to verify your Helm charts before installing them. Linting helps us verify that the chart and the YAML format is correct. Secondly, verifying the template helps us make sure that the templating part is working as expected. And the third option is the dry run option, which helps us make sure that the chart works well with Kubernetes itself. So let's look at each of these in more detail. So how do we make sure that our chart is built correctly without any formatting errors or wrong values? Say for instance, while building the chart, we made a few mistakes such as accidentally not having enough spaces before a line, thereby resulting in an incorrect format or making a typo in using a variable name such as a release with two e's instead of an E and an A. So what do you do in such case? How do you catch these errors? For this run the helm lint command and specify the path to the chart directory. This command goes through the files in the chart and validates their format and looks for errors. It highlights the two errors and tells us which file and what line the errors are on. The typo error is at line four and the YAML indentation error is at line 20. And fixing these errors and running the command again tells us the lint is completed and there are zero chart failures. So you can see that it also recommends best practices such as adding an icon is recommended in the Chart.yaml file. Now that we have made sure there are no errors in the format of the file, we want to make sure that the templating stuff we added in the deployment or YAML file is actually generating what we'd expect in the final parsed manifest file that it will send to Kubernetes. So meaning there is the release.name will translate to the actual release name and the properties in values file will translate to the values listed there. So we can verify what would be generated with the Helm template command followed by the chart name. The Helm template command renders a chart template locally and displays the output. This output shows us what each template.yaml file would generate and everything looks correct. The values we defined in the values.yaml file were picked and used by our deployment or YAML template file, such as a replica count and the image name. Also, if you notice the release name is mentioned as release-name and in capital letters. Now this is because we haven't specified a release name in the command itself. So if you don't pass in a release name, this is what you will see. That's the default release name that it applies when you run the Helm template command. So you could pass in a release name in the command, just like how you would pass in a release name in the install command. And then it generates a new file with the release name that you've specified in the Helm template command. Now, if there was an error in one of the template files, say for example, it was malformed, and there is an indentation error in one of the files, the template command will fail with an error. However, it might not be obvious as to what exactly the error is at times. For example, in this case, the name under metadata is not intended correctly. It might help to see how the YAML file was generated. So you can spot the issue because from the output of this particular Helm template command, it's not very clear as to what is the exact file that was generated, which has this particular indentation issue. So to see the YAML file that was generated, which caused the error, use the debug flag along with the Helm template command like this, and it displays the generated YAML file in the output. And this can be handy to view what the cause of the issue is. So we have verified that the YAML format is correct using the Helm link command. And we have verified that Helm templating is working as expected using the Helm template command. And these two steps help us catch a lot of errors. However, there are still other errors that we could make that may not be caught by these commands. For example, we made a mistake with the Kubernetes manifest file. So instead of containers, we wrote container in the singular form. And neither the Helm link command, nor the Helm template command is going to catch this, because the YAML format is correct, and the templating is correct as well. So what's wrong is the Kubernetes manifest format. So only Kubernetes can tell us that this is wrong. To catch this, we could run the same Helm install command that we ran earlier to install the Helm chart, but with the dry run option. So this just pretends to install the package to the cluster, and it can catch things that Kubernetes would complain about in a real install. Once the issues are fixed, we run the Helm install command, again, with the dry run option, and you should see the YAML files in their final format, but does not actually install the applications or make any changes to the actual cluster. This is just going to do a dry run. So this is a handy way of making sure that everything is working as expected before performing the real install. Well, that's it for this lecture, we'll head over to the labs and practice working on building some basic charts and making sure that the charts you build are working as expected. And we will continue learning more about developing charts in the upcoming videos.